　　1、Keep conscience clear,then never fear.
　　问心无愧，永无畏惧。

　　2、One mend-fault is worth two find-faults,but one find-fault is better than two make faults.
　　一个改正之错相当于两个发现之错，但一个发现之错好

　　3、If thou wouldest live long,live well;for folly and wickedness shorten life.
　　若欲求长寿，生活须行善，因为蠢行和邪恶会把生命缩短。

　　4、Tis easier to prevent bad hadits than to breadk them.
　　防止染上恶习远比消除恶习容易。

　　5、You may be too cunning for one,but not for all.
　　蒙骗得了一人，但蒙骗不了所有的人。

　　6、Life is but a hard and tortuous journey.
　　人生即是一段艰难曲折的旅程，人生无坦途。

　　7、Life is compared to a voyage.
　　人生好比是一次航程。

　　8、Who judges best of a man,his enemies or himself?
　　谁能最恰当地评价一个人，他的敌人还是他自己？

　　9、Let our fathers and garandfathers be valued for their goodness,ourselves for our own.
　　让父亲和祖辈因他们的善行受到尊重，让我们因我们自己的善行也受到尊重。

　　10、To an optimist every change is a change for the better.
　　对于乐观者总是越变越好。

　　11、Money spent on the brain is never spent in vain.
　　智力投资绝不会白花。

　　12、The voice of one man is the voice of no one.
　　一个人的声音没有力量。

　　13、He that can bear a reproof,and mend by it,if he is not wise,is in a fair way of being so.
　　能承受责备并据此改过者，若不算是智者，也距之不远。

　　14、Live and let live.
　　自己生活也让别人生活。

　　15、Truth never fears investigation.
　　事实从来不怕调查。

　　16、Storms make trees take deeper roots.
　　风暴使树木深深扎根。

　　17、A great ship asks for deep waters.
　　大船要走深水。

　　18、Wisdom in the mind is better than money in the hand.
　　脑中有知识，胜过手中有金钱。

　　19、Life would be too smooth if it had no rubs in it.
　　生活若无波折险阻，就会过于平淡无奇。

　　20、Clean your finger,before you point at my spots.
　　先洗浄你的手指，再指出我的污迹。

　　21、Life is painting a picture, not doing a sum.
　　生活是绘画，不是做算术。

　　22、Trick and treachery are the practice if fools,that have not wit enough to be honest.
　　傻瓜习惯于诡计和背判的伎俩，他们还没聪明到学会真诚待人

　　23、An old man in a house is a good sign.
　　家中有老是一个好迹象。

　　24、Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.
　　无热情成就不了伟业。

　　25、Every man is his own worst enemy.
　　一个人最大的敌人就是他自 己。

　　26、Life is real, life is earnest.
　　人生真实，人生诚挚。

　　27、Constant dropping wears the stone.
　　滴水穿石。

　　28、There is no man so bad,but he secretly respects the good.
　　再坏的人都会暗自敬重好人。

　　29、It is never too late to learn.
　　活到老，学到老。

　　30、While there is life, there is hope.
　　有生命便有希望/留得青山在，哪怕没柴烧。

　　31、Don't throw stones at your neightbours,if your own windows are glass.
　　假如你家的窗户是玻璃做的，别用石头打你的邻居。

　　32、Two heads are better than one.
　　一人不及二人智；三个臭皮匠，胜个过一个诸葛亮。

　　33、Misfortunes tell us what fortune is.
　　不经灾难不知福。

　　34、Misfortunes never come alone/single.
　　祸不单行。

　　35、TAll mankind are beholden to him that is kind to the good.
　　行善者，人人铭记之。

　　36、Life is sweet.
　　人生是美好的。

　　37、Nothing so popular as goodness.
　　最受欢迎的是善行。

　　38、Speak with contempt of none,form slave to king,the meanest bee,and will use,a sting.
　　别用言词贬低任何人，无论国王还是奴隶。最卑戝的蜜蜂也会用它的毒针蜇人。

　　39、Who has deceiv'd thee so oft as thy self?
　　欺骗你的莫过于自己。

　　40、Life means struggle.
　　生活就是斗争。

　　41、It's the easiest thing in the world for a man to deceive himself.
　　自欺是世上最易之事。

　　42、All things in their being are good for something.
　　天生我才必有用。

　　43、From small beginnings comes great things.
　　伟大始于渺小。

　　44、Everything ought to be beautiful in a human being: face, and dress, and soul, and ideas.
　　人的一切--面貌、衣着、心灵和思想，都应该是美好的。

　　45、Experience is the mother of wisdom.
　　经验是智慧之母。

　　46、Beware,beware!he'll cheat'ithout scruple,who can without fear.
　　当心，当心！行骗而无所畏惧者，也将无所顾虑。

　　47、Good company on the road is the shortest cut.
　　行路有良伴就是捷径。

　　48、Calamity and prisperity are the touchstones of integrity.
　　不幸与幸运都是正直的试金石。

　　49、The excellency of hogs is fatness,of men virtue.
　　猪的优点在于肥壮，人的优点在于美德。

　　50、Don't misinform your doctor nor your lawyer.
　　别向医生和律师提供错误的消息。

　　51、Great works are performed not by strength but by perseverance.
　　没有恒心只有力量是完不成伟业的。

　　52、He that doth what he should not,shall feel what he would not.
　　若做了不应该做的事，则将产生自己所不希望有的感觉。

　　53、If thou injurest conscience,it will have its revenge on thee.
　　伤害良心，将受到良心的严惩。

　　54、Great minds think alike.
　　英雄所见略同。

　　55、Life is a horse, and either you ride it or it rides you.
　　人生像一匹马，你不驾驭它，它便驾驭你。

　　56、The sun never repents of the good he does,nor does he ever demand a recompence.
　　太阳绝不为它所做的善事后悔，也从不指望任何报酬。

　　57、Life is a leaf of paper white, there on each of us may write his word or two.
　　生活就像一张白纸，每个人都可以在其上写上自己的一两句话。

　　58、You may be more happy than pinces,if you will be more virtuous.
　　如果你能多做善事，你会比王子还要幸福。

　　59、If you do what you should not,you must hear what you would not.
　　若做了不应做之事，则必然会听见不愿听之语。

　　60、The sting of a reproach,is the truth of it.
　　指责带给你刺痛，正是它的忠实之处

　　61、Virtue and happiness are mother and daugher.
　　美德和幸福犹如母女。

　　62、An honest man will receive neither money nor praise,that is not his due.
　　正直的人既不收受他人的钱财，也不接受他人的奉承，这些都不是他应得的

　　63、Each year one vicious habit rooted out,in time minght make the worst man good throughout.
　　每年根除一恶习，恶根亦会成完人。

　　64、On earth there is nothing great but man; in the man there is nothing great but mind.
　　地球上最伟大生物是人，人身上最伟大的东西是心灵。

　　65、Saying and doing are two different things.
　　说和做是迥然不同的两回事。

　　66、Thirst after desert,not reward.
　　渴求美德而非奖赏。

　　67、A good medicine tasks bitter.
　　良药苦口。

　　68、Life is fine and enjoyable, yet you must learn to enjoy your fine life.
　　人生是美好的，但要学会如何享用美好的生活。

　　69、Life is the art of drawing sufficient conclusions form insufficient premises.
　　生活是一种艺术，要在不充足的前提下得出充足的结论。

　　70、It takes all sorts to make a world.
　　世界是由各种不同的人所组成的。

　　71、Let the vices die before thee.
　　让恶习先你死去。

　　72、Wise men learn by other men's mistakes; fools by their own.
　　聪明人从别人的错误中学得教训；笨人则自己付出代价。他山之石可以攻玉。

　　73、How few there are who have courage enough to own their faults.or resolution enough to mend them!
　　承认并改正错误，需要有足够的勇气和决心

　　74、The good or ill of man lies within his own will.
　　人的善良或邪恶都存在于他。

　　75、Life is like music. It must be composed by ear, feeling and instinct, not by rule.
　　人生如一首乐曲，要用乐感、感情和直觉去谱写，不能只按乐律行事。

　　76、Life is a great big canvas, and you should throw all the paint on it you can.
　　人生是一幅大画布，你可以尽可能的往上着色。

　　77、Misfortunes come on wings and depart on foot.
　　遭祸容易脱祸难。

　　78、It is never too late to mend.
　　亡羊补牢，犹时未晚。

　　79、If a thing is worth doing it is worth worth doing well.
　　如果事情值得做，就值得好好做。

　　80、When you're good to others,you are best to yourself.
　　善待他人，即是最善待自己。

　　81、Actions speak louder than words.
　　行动比语言更响亮。

　　82、The secret of success is constancy of purpose.
　　成功的秘诀在于持之于恒。

　 83、Our greatest glory consists not in never falling but in rising every time we fall.
　　我们最值得自豪的不在于从不跌倒，而在于每次跌倒之后都爬起来。

  1. The roots of education are bitter , but the fruit is sweet .
　　教育的根是苦的，但其果实是甜的。

　　2、Patience is bitter, but its fruit is sweet .
　　忍耐是痛苦的，但它的果实是甜蜜的。

　　3、To sensible men, every day is a day of reckoning.——JWGardner
　　对聪明人来说，每一天的时间都是要精打细算的。——JW加德纳

　　4、I have nothing to offer but blood , toil tears and sweat .
　　我所能奉献的没有其它，只有热血、辛劳、眼泪与汗水。

　　5、Never leave that until tomorrow , which you can do today .
　　今天的事不要拖到明天。

　　6、And gladly would learn , and gladly teach .
　　勤于学习的人才能乐意施教。

　　7、If you don\'t learn to think when you are young , you may never learn .
　　如果你年轻时就没有学会思考，那么就永远学不会思考。

　　8、Power invariably means both responsibility and danger .
　　实力永远意味着责任和危险。

　　9、Happy is the man who is living by his hobby .
　　醉心于某种癖好的人是幸福的。

　　10、No country , however rich , can afford the waste of its human resources .
　　任何一个国家，不管它多么富裕，都浪费不起人力资源。

　　11、Do not , for one repulse , give up the purpose that you resolved to effect .
　　不要只因一次失败，就放弃你原来决心想达到的目的。

　　12、If you doubt yourself , then indeed you stand on shaky11 ground .
　　如果你怀疑自己，那么你的立足点确实不稳固了。

　　13、Early to bed and early to rise , makes a man healthy , wealthy and wise .
　　早睡早起会使人健康、富有和聪明。

　　14、Money is like muck , not good except it be spread .
　　金钱好比粪肥，只有撒到在大地才是有用之物。

　　15、The people who get on in this world are the people who get up and look for circumstances they want , and if they cannot find them .they make them.
　　在这个世界上，取得成功的人是那些努力寻找他们想要机会的人，如果找不到机会，他们就去创造机会。

　　16、Most folks are about as happy as they make up their minds to be .
　　对于大多数人来说，他们认定自己有多幸福，就有多幸福。

　　17、As selfishness and complaint cloud the mind,so love with its joy clears and sharpens the vision.——Helen Keller
　　自私和抱怨是心灵的阴暗，愉快的爱则使视野明朗开阔。——海伦·凯勒

　　18、Genius17 without education is like silver in the mine.
　　未受教育的天才，犹如矿中之银。

　　19、Where there is a will , there is a way .
　　有志者，事竟成。

　　21、The supreme happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved .
　　生活中最大的幸福是坚信有人爱我们。

　　22、Knowledge is power .
　　知识就是力量。

　　23、To really understand a man we must judge him in misfortune .
　　要真正了解一个人，需在不幸中考察他。

　　24、Money is like muck , not good except it be spread .
　　金钱好比粪肥，只有撒到在大地才是有用之物。

　　25、It is at our mother\'s knee that we acquire our noblest and truest and highest , but there is seldom any money in them.
　　就是在我们母亲的膝上，我们获得了我们的最高尚、最真诚和最远大的理想，但是里面很少有任何金钱。

　　26、If you wish to succeed , you should use persistence as your good friend , experience as your reference , prudence as your brother and hope as your sentry.
　　如果你希望成功，当以恒心为良友、以经验为参谋、以谨慎为兄弟、以希望为哨兵。

　　27、I succeeded because I willed it ; I never hesitated .
　　我成功是因为我有决心，从不踌躇 。

　　28、If you would know the value of money , go and try to borrow some .
　　要想知道钱的价值，就想办法去借钱试试。

　　29、A great poem is a fountain forever overflowing with the waters of wisdom and delight.——Shelley
　　一首伟大的诗犹如一座喷泉，不断地喷出智慧和快乐的泉水。——雪莱

　　30、All the splendor 1 in the world is not worth a good friend .
　　人世间所有的荣华富贵不如一个好朋友。

　　31、Money is a good servant and a bad master .
　　金钱是善仆，也是恶主。

　　32、The man who has made up his mind to win will never say "impossible ".
　　凡是决心取得胜利的人是从来不说“不可能的”。

　　33、When an end is lawful and obligatory, the indispensable means to is are also lawful and obligatory .
　　如果一个目的是正当而必须做的，则达到这个目的的必要手段也是正当而必须采取的。

　　34、Man errs so long as he strives.
　　人只要奋斗就会犯错误。

　　35、If a man empties his purse into his head , no man can take it away from him , an investment in knowledge always pays the best interest .
　　倾已所有追求知识，没有人能夺走它；向知识投资，收益最佳。

　　36、Histories make men wise ; poems witty; the mathematics subtle; natural philosophy deep ; moral grave ; logic and rhetoric able to contend .
　　历史使人明智；诗词使人灵秀；数学使人周密；自然哲学使人深刻；伦理使人庄重；逻辑修辞学使人善辨。

　　37、When work is a pleasure , life is joy ! When work is duty , life is slavery .
　　工作是一种乐趣时，生活是一种享受！工作是一种义务时，生活则是一种苦役。

　　38、A novel is a mirror walking along a main road .
　　一部小说犹如一面在大街上走的镜子。

　　39、Human felicity is produced not so much by great pieces of good fortune that seldom happen , as by little advantages that occur every day .
　　与其说人类的幸福来自偶尔发生的鸿运，不如说来自每天都有的小实惠。

　　40、I am a slow walker , but I never walk backwards .
　　我走得很慢，但是我从来不会后退。

　　41、The only limit to our realization of tomorrow will be our doubts of today .
　　实现明天理想的唯一障碍是今天的疑虑。

　　42、Early to bed and early to rise , makes a man healthy , wealthy and wise .
　　早睡早起会使人健康、富有和聪明。

　　43、It is no use doing what you like ; you have got to like what you do .
　　不能爱哪行才干哪行，要干哪行爱哪行。

　　44、At twenty years of age , the will reigns; at thirty , the wit ; and at forty , the judgment .
　　二十岁时起支配作用的是意志，三十岁时是机智，四十岁时是判断。

　　45、A great part to the information I have was acquired by looking up something and finding something else on the way .
　　我的大部分知识都是这样获得的：在寻找某个资料时意外的发现了另上的资料。

　　46、Happiness is form courage .
　　幸福是勇气的一种形式。

　　47、Each moment in history is a fleeting time , precious and unique .
　　历史巨轮飞转，分分秒秒的时间都十分宝贵，也独具意义。

　　48、A free man obtains knowledge from many sources 1 besides books .
　　一个自由的人除了从书本上获取知识外，还可以从许多别的来源获得知识。

　　49、with what they love.——Hawthorne
　　富有才华的人不要求他们的爱人像自己一样出众。他们所欣赏的只是感情的自然流露、真诚的爱、朴素的乐趣以及与所爱的人在一起时 的满足。——-霍桑

　　50、interrupt yourself.——rendan Francis
　　别人对你工作的干扰与你自己无数次地打断自己相比，微不足道。——布兰丹·拂朗西斯

　　51、A light heart lives long .
　　豁达者长寿。

　　52、I can live for two months on a good compliment.
　　只凭一句赞美的话我就可以充实地活上两个月。

　　53、 You have to believe in yourself. That's the secret of success.——Charles Chaplin
　　人必须相信自己，这是成功的秘诀。——卓别林

　　54、Don\'t gild the lily.
　　不要给百合花镀金/画蛇添足。

　　56、If you want to understand today , you have to search yesterday .
　　想要懂得今天，就必须研究昨天。

　　57、I have nothing to offer but blood , toil tears and sweat .
　　我所能奉献的没有其它，只有热血、辛劳、眼泪与汗水。

　　58、Power invariably means both responsibility and danger .
　　实力永远意味着责任和危险。

　　59、Imagination is more important than knowledge .
　　想象力比知识更为重要。

　　60、If you wish to succeed , you should use persistence as your good friend , experience as your reference , prudence as your brother and hope as your sentry.
　　如果你希望成功，当以恒心为良友、以经验为参谋、以谨慎为兄弟、以希望为哨兵。

　　61、The only limit to our realization of tomorrow will be our doubts of today .
　　实现明天理想的唯一障碍是今天的疑虑。

　　63、Man errs so long as he strives.
　　人只要奋斗就会犯错误。

　　64、Work banishes those three great evils : boredom , vice, and poverty.
　　工作撵跑三个魔鬼：无聊、堕落和贫穷。

　　65、Only those who have the patience to do simple things perfectly ever acquire the skill to do difficult things easily .             
    只有有耐心圆满完成简单工作的人，才能够轻而易举地完成困难的事。

　　66、Ordinary people merely think how they shall spend their time ; a man of talent tries to use it .
　　普通人只想到如何度过时间，有才能的人设法利用时间。

　　67、The man who has made up his mind to win will never say "impossible ".
　　凡是决心取得胜利的人是从来不说“不可能的”。

　　68、Natural abilities are like natural plants that need pruning by study.
　　天生的才干如同天生的植物一样，需要靠学习来修剪。

　　69、 Every man is the master of his own fortune.——Richard Steele
　　每个人都主宰自己的命运。——R.斯梯尔

　　70、The reading of all good books is like a conversation with the finest men of past centuries.——Rene Descartes
　　读好书，如同与先哲们交谈。——雷内·笛卡尔

　　71、When one loves one\'s art no service seems too hard .
　　一旦热爱艺术，什么奉献也不难。

　　72、A great poem is a fountain forever overflowing with the waters of wisdom and delight .
　　伟大的诗篇即是永远喷出智慧和欢欣之水的喷泉。

　　73、The golden age is before us , not behind us .
　　黄金时代在我们面前而不在我们背后。

　　74、You have to believe in yourself . That\'s the secret of success .
　　人必须相信自己，这是成功的秘诀。

　　75、No country , however rich , can afford the waste of its human resources .
　　任何一个国家，不管它多么富裕，都浪费不起人力资源。

　　76、Achievement provides the only real pleasure in life .
　　有所成就是人生唯一的真正乐趣。

　　77、Humor has been well defined as thinking in fun while feeling in earnest.
　　幽默被人正确地解释为“以诚挚表达感受，寓深思于嬉”。

　　78、To choose time is to save time .
　　合理安排时间就是节约时间 。

　　79、The secret of being miserable is to have leisure to bother about whether you are happy or not .
　　痛苦的秘密在于有闲功夫担心自己是否幸福。

　　80、If you would know the value of money , go and try to borrow some .
　　要想知道钱的价值，就想办法去借钱试试。

　　81、Activity is the only road to knowledge .
　　行动是通往知识的唯一道路 。

　　82、Where there is a will , there is a way .
　　有志者，事竟成。

　　83、Art is a lie that tells the truth .
　　美术是揭示真理的谎言。

　　84、Only those who have the patience to do simple things perfectly ever acquire the skill to do difficult things easily . 
    只有有耐心圆满完成简单工作的人，才能够轻而易举地完成困难的事。

　　85、We have no more right to consume happiness without producing it than to consume wealth without producing it .
　　正像我们无权只享受财富而不创造财富一样，我们也无权只享受幸福而不创造幸福。

　　86、Happiness lies not in the mere possession of money ; it lies in the joy of achievement , in the thrill of creative effort .
　　幸福不在于拥有金钱，而在于获得成就时的喜悦以及产生创造力的激情。

　　87、You have to believe in yourself . That\'s the secret of success .
　　人必须相信自己，这是成功的秘诀。

　　88、for something, what do you win?——Lane Kirkland
　　不要认为取胜就是一切，更重要的是要有信念。倘若你没有信念，那胜利又有什么意义呢？

　　89、There are two motives for reading a book: one that you enjoy it; the other that you can boast about it .——-Bertrand Russell
　　读书有两种动机：一是从中获得乐趣；另一种则是可以向人夸耀。——罗素

　　90、Money is a good servant and a bad master .
　　金钱是善仆，也是恶主。

　　91、We always have time enough , if we will but use it aright.
　　只要我们能善用时间，就永远不愁时间不够用。

　　92、Progress is the activity of today and the assurance of tomorrow .
　　进步是今天的活动、明天的保证。

　　93、Learning is an ornament in prosperity, a refuge in adversity, and a provision in old age.——Aristotle
　　学问在成功时是装饰品，在失意时是庇护所，在年老时是供应品。——亚里士多德

　　94、Achievement provides the only real pleasure in life .
　　有所成就是人生唯一的真正乐趣。

　　95、Better be unborn than untaught , for ignorance is the root of misfortune .
　　与其不受教育，不如不生，因为无知是不幸的根源。

　　96、The time of life is short ; to spend that shortness basely, it would be too long .
　　人生苦短，若虚度年华，则短暂的人生就太长了。

　　97、The decline of literature indicates the decline of a nation ; the two keep in their downward tendency.
　　文学的衰落表明一个民族的衰落。这两者走下坡路的时间是齐头并进的。

  1、A day is a miniature of eternity. （ Emerson ）
　　一天是永恒的缩影。（爱默生）

　　2、Miracles sometimes occur, but one has to work terribly for them. （ C. Weizmann ）
　　奇迹有时候是会发生的，但是你得为之拼命蒂努力。（魏茨曼）

　　3、It takes two to make a quarrel.
　　一个巴掌拍不响。

　　4、single spark can start a prairie fire.
　　星星之火，可以燎原。

　　5、A friend in need is a friend indeed.
　　患难见真情。

　　6、Each man is the architect of his own fate.
　　每个人都是自己命运的建筑师。

　　7、Don't trouble trouble till trouble troubles you.
　　麻烦没有来找你，不要去找麻烦。

　　8、A good name is better than riches.
　　声誉胜于财富。

　　9、Time is a bird for ever on the wing. （ T. W. Robertson ）
　　时间是一只永远在飞翔的鸟。（罗伯逊）

　　10、An open enemy is better than a hollow friend.
　　宁有公开的敌人，不要虚伪的朋友。

　　11、Speech is the image of actions.
　　语言是行动的反映。

　　12、It is always morning somewhere in the world.
　　世界上总是有某个地方可以看到阳光。

　　13、If you do not learn to think when you are young, you may never learn. （ Edison ）
　　如果你年轻时不学会思考，那就永远不会。（爱迪生）

　　14、Anger begins with folly, and ends in repentance.
　　愤怒以愚蠢开始，以后悔告终。

　　15、Talents come from diligence, and knowledge is gained by accumulation.
　　天才在于勤奋，知识在于积累。

　　16、The greater the man, the more restrained his anger.
　　人越伟大，越能克制怒火。

　　17、If there were less sympathy in the world, there would be less trouble in the world. （ O. Wilde ）
　　如果世界上少一些同情，世界上也就会少一些麻烦。（王尔德）

　　18、All lay load on the willing horse.
　　人善被人欺，马善被人骑。

　　19、Strike the iron while it is hot.
　　趁热打铁。

　　20、When shepherds quarrel, the wolf has a winning game.
　　鹬蚌相争，渔翁得利。

　　21、Morality may consist solely in the courage of making a choice. （ L. Blum ）
　　品德可能仅仅在于有勇气作出抉择。（布鲁斯）

　　22、Haste trips over its own heels.
　　忙易出错。

　　23、A watched pot never boils.
　　心急喝不了热粥。

　　24、Birds of a feather flock together.
　　物以类聚，人以群分。

　　25、He who commences many things finishes but a few.
　　样样都搞，完成者少。

　　26、There is no such thing as darkness; only a failure to see. （ Muggeridge ）
　　没有黑暗这种东西，只有看不见而已。（马格里奇）

　　27、You cannot step twice into the same river.
　　你不能两次踏入同一条河流。

　　28、Better the devil you know than the devil you don't know.
　　明枪易躲，暗箭难防。

　　29、Courage and resolution are the spirit and soul of virtue.
　　勇气和坚定是美德的精神与灵魂。

　　30、Do not, for one repulse, forgo the purpose that you resolved to effort. （ Shakespeare ）
　　不要只因一次挫败，就放弃你原来决心想达到的目的。（莎士比亚）

　　31、The man who has made up his mind to win will never say “ Impossible”.（ Napoleon ）
　　凡是决心取得胜利的人是从来不说“不可能”的。（拿破仑）

　　32、One's sin will find one out.
　　坏事终归要败露。

　　33、Beware beginning.
　　以谨慎开始。
